[theme song starts]
[digital typing and beeping]
♪ Here we are, going far
To save all that we love ♪
♪ If we give all we've got
We will make it through ♪
♪ Here we are, like a star
Shining bright on your world ♪
♪ Today, make evil go away ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we'll reset it all ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, be there when you call ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we will stand real tall ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, stronger after all ♪
[digital whirring and beeping]
[Jeremy] Okay. The connecting blocks
have been configured.
Now, we have to compile
the structural intermediate data.
Did you scan the random
distortion components?
It's done.
Okay. I'm programming
the axonometric vectors
to browse the dipolar coordinates.
Jeremy, how's the virtual submarine going?
I can't wait to go on a XANA hunt.
[grunts]
Odd!
[shushes]
You don't wanna wake up
our sleeping beauties.
[computer beeping]
The coordinates have been recognized
by the Supercomputer.
That's great teamwork. Huh, Aelita?
I couldn't have done it without your help.
[computer beeping]
The programming is complete.
Time to launch the construction phase.
[Jeremy] I'm ready.
Just a few more seconds
and I'll be all set, too.
[Yumi gasps]
-Okay. I'm ready.
-[computer beeping louder]
-[Jeremy] Now?
-Yeah, now!
[computer blipping]
[computer chimes]
[tense music]
[music crescendos]
[computer chirping]
Hey, what's that room? It's new to me!
It's new to everyone! Aelita just
programmed it into the core zone.
We'll use it as a sort of hangar
for our sub.
We've gotta christen it! Give it a name.
Odd, you don't christen a ship
until the building is over.
That's when it gets its real name.
But nothing says we can't give
it a code name.
Good idea.
-Why don't we call her Melanie?
-[Aelita] Melanie?
You mean like that redhead
you're so mad about?
You have a crush on a girl
who reminds you of a submarine?
[Odd growls]
You know, it's pretty late. Why don't we
talk about it while we're walking?
[computer beeping]
[theme music]
[Jeremy] The rest of the calculations
should keep running by themselves
until tomorrow afternoon.
By then, the atomic layers
of the virtual external structure
will be complete.
At 4 p.m. sharp,
Aelita will be launching phase two
of the programming operation:
the construction of the core.
And we're gonna have to be
on time, ‘cause if we're not,
the kinetic dipolar distortion energy
will enter a dangerous
and destructive
chromodynamic sinusoidal phase.
Mind saying that in English?
If we're not in the factory by four,
the core will collapse into itself.
Kind of like a black hole.
Are you saying Melanie will be destroyed?
Yeah, it sure will.
and it's gonna take months
before we can reprogram it.
Months during which XANA
can continue doing his dirty work
without any interference from us.
Jeremy and I still have
some technical stuff to work on
before we go to sleep.
[ominous music]
[Jeremy]
I can't believe it.
Pretty soon we'll be able to track
XANA on the network.
We might even localize my dad.
[Jeremy] That would be great,
but we'd better not get our hopes up.
-[footsteps]
-[Jeremy] Even if it's possible,
it's not going to be easy.
[Aelita] I know, but I'd completely lost
hope when XANA destroyed all of Lyoko.
[footsteps approaching]
-[door crashes open]
-[yelling] Belpois!
[both gasp]
What are you doing here?
Uh… I'm… This is my room!
Huh? I… Oh…
I know that…
As I was saying…
Miss Stones, what are you doing in here?
Well, um… Mmm…
You ought to know
that the girls have to stay upstairs,
which is their floor,
and that they're not allowed downstairs,
where the boys are, down here.
And so tomorrow, you can repeat,
word for word, what I just said
about downstairs and upstairs
to the principal!
-[playful music]
-[birds chirping]
[Mr. Delmas] Now listen to me,
both of you.
Kadic is a highly respectable institution.
The rule is strict.
Girls have no right
to be in the boys' rooms
and vice versa.
And especially after lights out!
There's no excuse for your conduct!
Uh… We didn't do anything bad.
He's right! We were just studying.
Well, since you like to study so much,
you'll be glad to know
that that's what you'll do in the library
for the entire afternoon.
I hope that's clear?
Jim, you're in charge.
Mr. Delmas, you can count on me
to take care of them.
-[birds chirping]
-[playful music]
Shakespeare's work has been divided
into a number of categories:
comedies, tragedies,
history plays, and dark comedies.
We're going to work on his most…
This is a disaster!
If we're not back in the factory
by four sharp, it's so long, Melanie.
So, what are you gonna do?
Skip out,
no matter what the consequences are.
What? You can't do that!
If you leave the library,
they'll throw you out of school for sure!
But we absolutely need the submarine
to travel through the network.
But if you guys get expelled,
how do we fight XANA?
-I have an idea!
-[teacher] Yes, Odd? We're listening.
What do you find so much more interesting
than Shakespeare?
Uh… Melanie?
[students laugh]
Actually, Melanie as a code name
is pretty lame.
You prefer Sissi?
C'mon, that's enough.
Melanie or not,
we've still got a pretty serious problem!
What about using lunchtime to get away?
We could just tell Jim
you're in the infirmary,
because something you ate
didn't agree with you.
Huh?
You think that might work?
What's on the menu for lunch?
Ravioli.
-Oh yeah, it's bound to work.
-[Jim laughs menacingly]
[Jim] Belpois, Stones!
Ha! You know what?
We're gonna have lunch together.
That way, I can get you
to the library right on time.
[Yumi panting]
Well, what's happening?
-[sighs] They've got company for lunch.
-[Yumi sighs]
[theme music]
[Yumi] We've got to find a way to get them
out of there by four o'clock!
Yeah, but how?
-Hm…
-[phone beeps]
And that was when I had to bail out
in the middle of a big storm
over the North Atlantic.
Well, I made it, but then I realized
that I wasn't going to get back in time
-for dinner! Hm?
-[phone ringing]
[exasperated grunts]
Yeah, Jim Morales spe-- Oh!
Uh… Would you repeat that?
What? I won the lottery?
[screaming] Hooray!!
[laughs triumphantly]
-[Jim continues laughing loudly]
-[students confused]
[Jim slowly stops laughing]
-[quietly] Are you sure?
-[Odd] Absolutely!
But, if you don't come
to claim your prize immediately,
we're sorry,
but it's going
to be given to the runner-up.
[suspiciously]
Hey, just a second.
I never bought
a lottery ticket in my life!
Uh… Really? Are you sure?
Uh…
You wouldn't, by any chance, have
a twin brother who could've bought one?
[Jim] Mm-hmm…
Della Robbia…
You're the one who's gonna wish
he had a twin brother
to do the detention I'm gonna give you!
[both grunt with disappointment]
-[playful music]
-[birds chirping]
[Jim sighs with relief]
Ah-ah! Not together. Separate desks!
You know what they say about dividing
to… multiply… to conquer… I meant…
Anyway, Belpois, over there
and Stones over there.
[Aelita sighs]
[door squeaks open]
-[dog barks]
-[Odd grunts]
[dog barking excitedly]
Kiwi, I just came to borrow something
from you, so calm down, okay?
[relieved] Ah!
[Jim grunts approvingly]
Mm-hmm!
[tense music]
-[watch ticking]
-[Jeremy sighs anxiously]
-[door creaks open]
-[mechanical whirring]
-[whirring continues]
-[Odd screaming] Red alert!
Red alert! Mrs. Hertz's mice
have escaped from the lab!
They're taking over the whole school.
We have to catch them right now!
Hm?
[surprised] Oh!
[mechanical whirring]
[groans]
Do you really wanna know
what has be caught, Della Robbia?
An idiot in a purple outfit
and a dumb ridiculous haircut,
and who's gonna be in big trouble
if he and his toy mouse
don't get outta here, pronto!
Ridiculous, my haircut?
I bet your jealous, huh?
-Della Robbia…
-Okay, okay.
Have you seen a mouse made of plastic?
Out! Go on!
-How'd it go?
-A fiasco!
I even got Kiwi mad.
And we can't use the door next time.
Well, how about the window?
-[yelps]
-[device beeping]
-[menacing music]
-[groans in disbelief]
[menacing music intensifies]
-[mechanical whirring]
-[engines firing up]
Hm…
-[buttons beeping]
-[tense music]
-Confiscated!
-[gasps]
You're here to study and that's all.
Meaning that there's no gabbing
your head off on your mobile.
Your cell phone, Belpois.
And your… thing that goes beep.
Shut it immediately
or I'll throw it in the garbage.
Now, look…
I was not born yesterday,
so don't think you can fool me.
Whatever game you wanna play,
remember I can beat you at it!
[theme music]
Any luck?
[groans]
The window's locked!
Okay, then come down.
You're not that light!
[makes impatient grunts]
Hold on!
I think Jeremy's trying
to give me a signal.
[screaming] Ah!
You mean his message wasn't clear?
It was a little bit too clear.
[Yumi]
Well, are your bright ideas working out?
No, but speaking of bright ideas,
Jeremy just tried to blind us
with one of his.
Let me have a look.
Come on, it's simple. Concentrate!
It's Morse Code, turkey!
Morse Code turkey?
Sounds pretty scrumptious!
Jeremy's trying to communicate!
Three short,
three long, three short…
-SOS!
-Why'd you learn Morse Code?
Hiroki and I keep secrets
from our parents that way.
Fac… to… ry…
-Factory!
-[Odd] SOS Factory?
Not a word about Melanie?
No time to lose.
We gotta get to the factory!
The message ended with the word "William."
[screeching]
[menacing music]
[music continues]
[growling]
Attack!
[music continues]
Fire!
[lasers booming against shield]
[all panting]
Mm-hmm.
Uh, Jim? Is it true you were
a math teacher in the tropics?
Uh… Affirmative.
I can't figure out what
the square of the hypotenuse could be.
Could you help me please?
Yeah, but… Uh… It's not all that easy,
because, um… In the tropics,
uh, the hippopotenuse is, um…
It's what's variable.
Yeah, because of the heat?
[giggles]
[Jim] Right.
[tense music]
-[whooshing]
-[rumbling]
Einstein left us a message.
"XANA's attacking Melanie.
Yumi, take over for me.
Odd and Ulrich, off to Lyoko."
Okay, go on, Yumi. You've done it before.
-Yeah, but what if I make a mistake?
-We have no choice.
We can't afford to lose Melanie.
You can do it, Yumi. I have faith in you.
[sighs]
I would even say that the hypothermia
of the hippopotenuse
depends on the hyperactivity of the noose.
Oh, who would have thought?
You know what?
You're a walking encyclopedia, Jim.
Well, you see, Aelita…
When you're out there all alone
in the tropical jungle,
with nothing more than a
cigarette lighter…
If you don't know all you need to know…
Zap! You're dead meat.
[screams]
Wow! You're incredible!
[typing clatter]
We've got a huge problem!
Once the protective shields are gone,
nothing can stop XANA
from totally wiping out Melanie.
[Yumi] And, according to Jeremy,
it can't be reprogrammed!
So, as soon as you get to Sector Five,
you're gonna have to work fast!
And try not to mix things up,
because I don't wanna find myself
with my arms
where my legs should be
and my nose in my navel.
Can you imagine that?
No.
-Well, are you ready?
-[Ulrich] Do your stuff, Yumi.
-[Yumi] Transfer Ulrich.
-[whirring]
-[Yumi] Transfer Odd.
[computer chirping and beeping]
[Yumi] Scanner Ulrich.
Scanner Odd.
Virtualization.
[electrical humming]
[electricity crackles]
[Odd] Two arms, two legs,
one head, one tail…
All present and accounted for!
[Ulrich] It worked, Yumi.
We're in the arena.
[sighs with relief]
Thanks, Jeremy.
-[typing clatter]
-[tense music]
Energy level… Melanie… Window F9.
Keep going till you reach the access hall.
Then, take a platform elevator
to the hangar.
Gotcha.
[both panting]
Wow!
Aelita did a fantastic job!
-[tense music]
-[both panting]
[roar of transporter]
[screeching to a halt]
-[Odd chuckles]
-Here we go!
[machinery whooshing and squealing]
Well, everything's cool up to now.
[Ulrich] Yumi, we're almost at the hangar.
Okay, I'll let Jeremy know.
Belpois…
You've been punished
for not having obeyed the rules,
but it seems you never learn!
No computer communication!
Uh… Mr. Delmas,
I didn't know you were here.
Bravo for you surveillance, Jim.
I, um… was helping Aelita here
with some hippopotamus--
Uh, that is… hippopotenuse problems.
I'm confiscating this
for the rest of the day.
No, please, sir! You can't do that.
You see, I must have my computer.
It's urgent!
-He's right, Mr. Delmas. It's really--
-[Jeremy] …vital!
Vital? Ridiculous!
Would you like to know what's vital?
Listen. It's vital to be aware
that there is no one in life
who can go unpunished
for being disobedient!
No!
Sorry about that, Belpois,
but you've still
a little punishment time left.
And until then,
I'm gonna stand between you and that door!
[tense music]
You grab William's attention
and I'll handle the Kreepers.
[metallic grating]
[tense music]
Yo, big shot…
Wanna mix it up a little?
[metallic clang]
-[swords whooshing]
-[both grunting]
[Odd grunting with effort]
Laser arrow!
[explosion]
[Odd chuckles triumphantly]
[whooshing and grunting]
Oh!
[crashing and banging]
Mantas!
-[screeching]
-[tense music]
[Odd yelling]
-[screeching]
-[lasers firing]
That's all we needed… XANA's air force.
Answer Jeremy, come on!
Oh, what is the matter with him?
Jim, if you let us go now,
we promise to do double detention,
starting tomorrow…
Or… Or…
Or triple!
We'll do triple detention
for a whole week, okay?
[grunts "no"]
-[tense music]
-[lasers booming against shield]
-[metallic clangs]
-[whooshing]
-[tense music continues]
-[laser shots booming]
-[whooshing]
-[booming explosions]
-[both grunting]
-[metallic whooshing]
[tense music grows louder]
-[electricity crackles]
-[grunts]
Yumi, we need back up.
We can't go it all alone.
Ulrich, I… I've lost contact
with Jeremy!
-[computer beeps]
-Oh no!
The submarine shields are getting weaker!
[Ulrich] Improvise!
Aelita and Jeremy have to get here now,
regardless of Jim.
-[phone ringing]
-[tense music]
Uh, Yumi…
Do you a favor, huh?
Like what?
No, because Johnny and me are playing
Babylon Ninja Fighter Five right now.
Hold on. She's so cool!
Come on, let's give her a little help.
If you let me get to level five first.
Okay.
You got it, sis,
but on one condition:
you do my homework for a month.
You're a real crook, Hiroki,
but okay.
And make it fast!
Hey!
Don't forget to tell her it was me
who convinced you to change your mind.
Yeah, sure…
[chuckles]
But I already told you,
you got no chance against Ulrich.
[moans]
[theme music]
-[loud screeching]
-[tense music]
[whooshing and banging]
[computer warnings beeping]
[watch ticking]
[Jeremy] Just fifteen minutes
of detention to go.
[grunting approval to each other]
[Kiwi sniffing]
Huh? What's going on around here?
Oh, I get it.
The mouse didn't work,
so now it's a mechanical dog.
Pretty good imitation, Della Robbia.
[barks]
But…
Hey, it's the real thing! A mangy mutt!
-[barks]
-[Jim grunts]
Hey! Stay where you are! Get back here!
[Aelita] Huh…
-[barking]
-[panting] I got… I gotcha!
[Jeremy] Come on!
-[lasers firing]
-[Odd grunting]
[booming from lasers]
[explosion]
They're just like sitting ducks!
Uh… Sitting Kreepers that is…
-[screeching]
-Ah!
[moaning]
[whooshing]
[booming explosion]
[whooshing and booming]
-[grunting]
-[electricity crackles]
-[metallic clashing]
-[both grunting heavily]
You're not gonna win, William!
Better let your master know.
[mechanical whirring]
-[metal clanging]
-[airlock hissing]
[door rattling open]
[Yumi] Hey, it's about time!
Okay, Yumi, Aelita, head for the scanners!
Only eight minutes to go.
Get over here, sweetie!
I'm gonna need you.
[tense music]
Ulrich, Odd, backup is on the way.
Great!
Things were heating up around here. Oh no!
[machine whirring slows down]
[heavy panting]
[yelps]
[electrical whirring]
[metallic clang]
It's a pleasure to see you again, ladies.
It's always nice to feel needed, isn't it?
It's about time.
Do you realize it's five minutes to four?
I know, Odd, I know.
Only five minutes to run
Melanie's core programming.
But even more important,
all of our protection shields
are just about down to zero!
-[lasers firing]
-[girls grunting]
-[grunting]
-[metal clanging]
[Ulrich yelps]
[William exhales]
[booming and rumbling]
[doors hiss open]
Hurry, ladies! The sub only has
seven percent of its life points left.
[booming and screeching]
-[electrical whirring]
-Energy field!
[booming explosion]
[Odd grunts in frustration]
Yumi, Aelita,
the sub's shield is almost totally gone.
One more hit and it's all over
for Melanie.
-[electrical whirring]
-[metallic clash]
Energy field!
-[explosion]
-[William screams]
Are you okay, Aelita?
Three fifty-nine and forty-five seconds…
Forty-six… Forty-seven…
It's done!
The programming for phase two
is under way!
-Yeah!
[action music]
[rumbling]
[Aelita] Jeremy,
our ship is finally completed.
[doors hissing open]
[moaning]
Oh wow! Close call for Melanie, huh?
[theme music]
[Odd] But Melanie's a great name.
Why don't we keep it?
It's a nice name for a girl,
but not a submarine.
Well, for a ship that's gonna hunt
down XANA on the network,
we need a name that's got some punch,
don't you think?
Like, um… Nautilus, for example.
[sarcastically] Hm…
That's pretty original.
Find a better one then.
[Ulrich] Aelita, are you coming?
Um… I'll be right there!
My father used to read this
book to me when I was five.
Viking Gods and Legends?
Look at that.
It was a mythical tall ship
that could even sail on land,
and it always reached its destination,
no matter what kind of wind was blowing
"The Skidbladnir"?
Skid… Skid… Blaskid… Ski… Ski…
What?
I really like that name.
Yeah, I like it too.
Okay, our new ship's name
is now "Skidbladnir."
The Skid… What about Skid for short?
Hey, what about Jim?
How did he react when he found out
you guys were gone?
Well, we haven't seen him since, so…
Maybe he forgot about us.
I haven't seen him on campus at all.
He must have other things on his mind.
[barking and panting]
Where are you, little doggy?
I know you're around here.
Come on now.
Uncle Jim's got a little snack for you!
Come on out now.
You won't get away from me,
you hairy hound, you!
[theme music]